# Transport subsystem

The **Transport subsystem** implements a point-to-point datagram communication channel. This channel is used for communication within service fabric clusters and communication between the service fabric cluster and clients. It supports one-way and request-reply communication patterns, which provides the basis for implementing broadcast and multicast in the [Federation subsystem](/src/prod/src/Federation#federation-subsystem). The transport subsystem secures communication by using X509 certificates or Windows security. This subsystem should be used internally by Service Fabric and not directly accessible to developers for application programming.

Service Fabric includes a messaging stack to facilitate routing and route maintenance between nodes in a ring federation or cluster. [Messages](/src/prod/src/Transport/Message.cpp) are accompanied by [header information](/src/prod/src/Transport/MessageHeaders.cpp) that identifies and describes the messages and may be used as an extensibility mechanism. Transports implement a basic [point-to-point datagram communication channel](/src/prod/src/Transport/IDatagramTransport.cpp) with address resolution, and additional functionality, such as end-to-end security, request-reply, reliability assurances and multicast may be layered on top of the low-level transport.  

The multicast communication pattern involves sending a message efficiently to a group of receivers. The pattern of sending a one-way message to a group of receives is referred to as fan-out pattern. The pattern of sending a request message to a group of receives and collecting a reply from each one of them is referred to as scatter-gather pattern.  In Service Fabric, different multicast patterns are needed at various level of the stack, while the basic patterns remain the same; the type of receivers and their number involved in the pattern differentiate the solution provided. 

